README.md, before:

# MonoGame Kickstarter
![MonoGame Kickstarter](MonoGameKickstarter-Transparent.png)

A bash script that sets up a MonoGame solution ready for cross-platform development.

## Usage

`monogame-kickstarter.sh [solutionname]`

This is all you need to do and MonoGame Kickstarter will create a solution with a MonoGame .NET Standard Library project and an OpenGL project referencing it. The OpenGL project will use code and content from the MonoGame .NET Standard Library project. Just open `Game1.cs` from the MonoGame .NET Standard Library project and you can immediately start developing your MonoGame project.

## Support

If you like this project and it does help you support me on Ko-fi! 

https://ko-fi.com/kwyrky

## Works with Linux and Windows

A quick test revealed that the script can also be used with Windows in git bash!

## Demo Linux

https://youtu.be/a4lmUq_F0fM

## Demo Windows

https://youtu.be/qgvVs06UvW8

## Additional Info

The parameter `[solutionname]` is optional. If the script is started without a parameter it will use the default value which is set to "MonoGameKickstarter". If you want to make the parameter mandatory you can achieve this by editing the script and setting the variable holding the default value to an empty string e.g. `solutionname=""`. You can also define a parent folder structure where the solution folder will be put in e.g. `outputdir="monogame-kickstarter"`. The script will then create the outputdir first and put everything inside it.

## Dependencies

The script makes use of the **.NET Core SDK** and the official **MonoGame templates** which have to be installed first. For details on how to do this please check the official MonoGame documentation https://docs.monogame.net/.

## What it does

The aim of the script is to provide a convenient (quick) way to set up a new solution which can be used as a basis for new MonoGame projects. As a starting point it creates a solution containing a **MonoGame NetStandard Library** project and a **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** project as a starting point for development. Later it should be possible to add more MonoGame projects from the official MonoGame templates to the solution.

Note: The script deletes `Game1.cs` and `Content` generated by the **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** template and then sets up a link to the Content project (Content.mgcb) generated by the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** template. The idea is that the **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** should use both the shared code of the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** as well as the content of the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** project.

## [OPTIONAL] Install globally

If you like, you can define a symbolic link so that the script can be used without typing its full path from anywhere. In the following command replace `<MonoGame.Kickstarter>` with the actual path to MonoGame.Kickstarter on your system!

`sudo ln -s <MonoGame.Kickstarter>/monogame-kickstarter.sh /usr/bin/monogame-kickstarter`

e.g. if you cloned this repo to `$HOME/dev/monogame/projects` the command would be

`sudo ln -s $HOME/dev/monogame/projects/MonoGame.Kickstarter/monogame-kickstarter.sh /usr/bin/monogame-kickstarter`

## Templates

| Templates                                              | Short Name    | Language | Tags     |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|----------|----------|
| MonoGame Android Application                           | mgandroid     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)   | mgdesktopgl   | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame iPhone/iPad Application                       | mgios         | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Universal Application (CoreApp)       | mguwpcore     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Universal Application (XAML)          | mguwpxaml     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Desktop Application (Windows DirectX) | mgwindowsdx   | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame NetStandard Library                           | mgnetstandard | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Pipeline Extension                            | mgpipeline    | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Shared Library Project                        | mgshared      | [C#]     | MonoGame |

Commit message:

command line parameters wip and update readme

README.md, after:

# MonoGame Kickstarter
![MonoGame Kickstarter](MonoGameKickstarter-Transparent.png)

A bash script that sets up a MonoGame solution ready for cross-platform development.

## Quickstart

`monogame-kickstarter.sh [solutionname]`

This is all you need to do and MonoGame Kickstarter will create a solution with a MonoGame .NET Standard Library project and an OpenGL project referencing it. The OpenGL project will use code and content from the MonoGame .NET Standard Library project. Just open `Game1.cs` from the MonoGame .NET Standard Library project and you can immediately start developing your MonoGame project.

## Parameters

All parameters must come before the optional non-option parameter for the solutionname / foldername.

At this point you can make use of the parameter to generate an OpenGL project (`-o` or `--mgdesktopgl`) and / or a Windows DirectX project (`-w` or `--mgwindowsdx`).

For example the command

`monogame-kickstarter.sh -ow [solutionname]`

will generate both projects and use [solutionname] as root folder name and solutionname.

## Support

If you like this project and it does help you support me on Ko-fi! 

https://ko-fi.com/kwyrky

## Works with Linux and Windows

A quick test revealed that the script can also be used with Windows in git bash! 

You can run the script in git bash and pass either `-w` or `--mgwindowsdx` as parameter to make it generate a Windows DirectX project.

`monogame-kickstarter.sh -w [solutionname]`
`monogame-kickstarter.sh --mgwindowsdx [solutionname]`

If you are using the script mainly on windows and you do want to only generate the Windows DirectX project you can modify and change the default value in the script from generating the OpenGL project `o=y` to `o=n` and turn on the Windows DirectX project by changing `w=n` to `w=y`.

If the default values for both options are turned off you can enable them each time you run the script by passing the corresponding options `-o` or `--mgdesktopgl` and `-w` or `--mgwindowsdx`.

## Demo Linux

https://youtu.be/a4lmUq_F0fM

## Demo Windows

https://youtu.be/qgvVs06UvW8

## Additional Info

The parameter `[solutionname]` is optional. If the script is started without a parameter it will use the default value which is set to "MonoGameKickstarter". If you want to make the parameter mandatory you can achieve this by editing the script and setting the variable holding the default value to an empty string e.g. `solutionname=""`. You can also define a parent folder structure where the solution folder will be put in e.g. `outputdir="monogame-kickstarter"`. The script will then create the outputdir(s) first and put everything inside it.

## Dependencies

The script makes use of the **.NET Core SDK** and the official **MonoGame templates** which have to be installed first. For details on how to do this please check the official MonoGame documentation https://docs.monogame.net/.

## What it does

The aim of the script is to provide a convenient (quick) way to set up a new solution which can be used as a basis for new MonoGame projects. As a starting point it creates a solution containing a **MonoGame NetStandard Library** project and a **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** project as a starting point for development. Later it should be possible to add more MonoGame projects from the official MonoGame templates to the solution.

Note: The script deletes `Game1.cs` and `Content` generated by the **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** template and then sets up a link to the Content project (Content.mgcb) generated by the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** template. The idea is that the **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)** should use both the shared code of the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** as well as the content of the **MonoGame NetStandard Library** project.

## [OPTIONAL] Install globally

If you like, you can define a symbolic link so that the script can be used without typing its full path from anywhere. In the following command replace `<MonoGame.Kickstarter>` with the actual path to MonoGame.Kickstarter on your system!

`sudo ln -s <MonoGame.Kickstarter>/monogame-kickstarter.sh /usr/bin/monogame-kickstarter`

e.g. if you cloned this repo to `$HOME/dev/monogame/projects` the command would be

`sudo ln -s $HOME/dev/monogame/projects/MonoGame.Kickstarter/monogame-kickstarter.sh /usr/bin/monogame-kickstarter`

## Templates

| Templates                                              | Short Name    | Language | Tags     |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|----------|----------|
| MonoGame Android Application                           | mgandroid     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application (OpenGL)   | mgdesktopgl   | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame iPhone/iPad Application                       | mgios         | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Universal Application (CoreApp)       | mguwpcore     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Universal Application (XAML)          | mguwpxaml     | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Windows Desktop Application (Windows DirectX) | mgwindowsdx   | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame NetStandard Library                           | mgnetstandard | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Pipeline Extension                            | mgpipeline    | [C#]     | MonoGame |
| MonoGame Shared Library Project                        | mgshared      | [C#]     | MonoGame |
